
Purose was for the romans duh


### Sinfulness of Humanity
v1-4 alot of detail that you already know but in  v2-4, Jesus was promised before he came to earth (prophets), and was a descendant of David (isaiah stump of Jesse) and proved he was that man foretold by the cross

v5 Through him we received grace and apostleship. We were given privilege of grace and we have the responsibility to be an ambassador for christ

v5 obedience that comes from faith. In our faith in christ we are obedient to his word

v6 Paul says the romans that they are along those gentiles that are called to Jesus Christ. Hes for all

v7 God loves romans

v9-10 reminds us to pray for our churches at all times and always

v12 We build each other up, being with other believers lift spirits, being able to pray with one another and mutually encourage one another

v14 Pauls there for all Gentiles 

v16 "For I am not ashamed of the gosple for it is the power of Jesus christ that brings slavation to all who believe. First to the jews then the gentiles"

brings salvation to all who believe, faith is all thats needed

Jew first, why did God show favor to the Jews why were they his chosen people?
Funny enough most rejected him and He loves the gentiles too that he gave them a way to be saved (Joel mentions pouting spirit on all ppl)

V17 if you wanna know Jesus read his word and we are made righteous by our faith 
ESV "...righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith"
NIV "...righteousness that is by faith from first to last"

seems like that we initially get righteousness from faith but we have to continue being righteousness with out faith 

### Gods wrath Against Sinful Humanity
v18 We see that God's anger to the wicked people who have their sin above what is true

v19-20 We see that Paul claims that God has proven his existence and power by the creation of the world and everything in it, so we are all without excuse

v21 Although they knew God they didnt glorify or thank Him and where then led astray by there own wisdom (foolishness)



So is paul claiming that even though people see al this and know that a god made it they choose not to believe the true God they are held accountable? But how could they have know which god. Who is Paul talking about here ? How could they know when they are taught something else. Even Paul himself believed in God and was doing what was taught to be righteous, but he then had to have an encounter with Jesus and then was taught by ananias to make him see the truth. 

It seem that if we tak e v21 in context Paul is not talking about all sinners but those 'who supress the truth...'(v18) and seem to have an encounter with god, 'for although they new God...' The ones that know God but hide it and want nothing to do with Him and follow their own truth. 

v23 we see that they turned to idolatry focusing on images made by human hands. 
v24 we see that God allows them to reject Him and have their free will to do as they wish. 

v26 Who are these people that Paul is talking about, past, present, or general?
It seems as though it is in general. We also see in Lev 18:22-23 about homo. 

v32 we see that they also bring others down with them in promoting their practices. 

v24,26,28 Three times we see 'God gave them up' we see that God allowed them to reject him why? see what life is like without him in it, and understand what a sinful life brings?


We see when they reject him the things that God allowed them to go to
- sexual immorality v24
- idolatry v25
- homosexuality v26,27
- deprived mind 
	- slanders
	- insolent
	- arrogant
	- boastful 
	- disobedience
	- no fidelity
	- no love
	- no mercy

these are all opposite of what God wants in out life










