The net- Judgement Jesus only want the faithful 
Sower- Jesus being gracious and giving the the word to all even if they wont accept it
Weeds- Moral grey area where we can't know for sure and let judgement go for God

Growing Seeds- That we only need to plant the word and God can give the transformations

Mustard seed- kingdom of god has small beginnings but grows into something large
Yeast - it takes only a little to cause growth
Sower- yeilds 60 times

Hidden Treasure- Jesus found us and bought us 
Pearl- Jesus finds us and seemingly foolish gives everything to have us


Jesus through out the synoptic gospels speaks in parables to illustrate ideas. In his first grouping of parables he describes the Kingdom of God. In these 8 parables we are able to see the nature of God. We see three characteristics of God, His justice, His transforming growth, His view on us. Many of these teachings were contrary to the the ideas that many of the Jews had envisioned the character of God, this is why he spoke in parables. Speaking in parables allowed those who truly care to understand to gain deeper understanding of God, while those who would reject these radical changes to their beliefs to be help blissfully unaccountable.  ==**interupt here with jump in of the lamp**==  The parables he preached where the Parable of the Soils, Weeds, Lamp, Growing Seed, Mustard Seed, Yeast, Hidden Treasure, Pearl, and the Net. 

In the parable of the four soils ( Matthew 13:1-9) we see Jesus planting the word to all being described as a sower sowing seeds to a wide range of soil types. To many it can be seen as foolish as to why the Jesus would plant seeds in a horny, a rocky, and a shallow soil. We see in the parable His nature that He wants it give it to all and that everyone has an unbiased chance to hear the same word.  

We see this further explored is illustrated in the parable of the net, weeds. We see that in the parable of the net (Mt 13:47-50) we see that the kingdom of heaven is like a large net that was casted in the ocean. When fishermen cast nets they can not control what fish they catch. They know where to look but can not guarantee a catch. The net catches all indiscriminately. The fisherman representing the believers are tasked to share the word to all indiscriminately. We see again just like the parable of the soils, Jesus wants the word given to all. We see that in the Parable of the Weeds (Matthew 13:24-30), the imagery of Jesus planting good believers in the world and satan planting many false believers that look good among them. It is hard for the believers to know with full certainty that they are false. In both these parables we see that Jesus says in the end of days that all will be brought together and he will judge and separate the righteous and the wicked, the believing and the unbelieving. In both He emphasizes how the wicked will burn and that there is great consequences for those who do no accept the word that they had a chance to believe in. 

